Unified SHOW page prototype (#1531)
neo4j/docs-cypher: modules/ROOT/pages/clauses/show.adoc

:description: Information about Cypher's `SHOW` command.
= SHOW

The `SHOW` command can be used to show the metadata of a database or a DBMS.
This page discusses common behavior to all `SHOW` commands.

> Rules pertaining to specific `SHOW` commands, as well as the different columns returned by them, are listed elsewhere in the documentation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rules pertaining to specific `SHOW` commands, as well as the different columns returned by them, are listed on other pages or in the Operations Manual as follows:
```

> * link:{neo4j-docs-base-uri}/operations-manual/current/authentication-authorization/attribute-based-access-control/#_listing_auth_rules[`SHOW AUTH RULES` (Operations Manual)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* link:{neo4j-docs-base-uri}/operations-manual/current/authentication-authorization/attribute-based-access-control/#_listing_auth_rules[Operations Manual -> `SHOW AUTH RULES`]
```

Reviewer: This is the standard we follow when referring to other manuals, if you want to keep it here as well. The same will apply to the rest of the links.

Author: Yes, but here I think it makes it more difficult to follow - it is easier to follow the alphabetical order if "Ops Manual" is not inserted before most entries. So I will leave this as is.

* link:{neo4j-docs-base-uri}/operations-manual/current/authentication-authorization/manage-privileges/#access-control-list-privileges[`SHOW PRIVILEGES` (Operations Manual)]
* link:{neo4j-docs-base-uri}/operations-manual/current/procedures/show-procedures/[`SHOW PROCEDURES` (Operations Manual)] // Not live yet
* link:{neo4j-docs-base-uri}/operations-manual/current/authentication-authorization/manage-roles/#access-control-list-roles[`SHOW ROLES` (Operations Manual)]
* link:{neo4j-docs-base-uri}/operations-manual/current/clustering/server-syntax/#_list_servers[`SHOW SERVERS` (Operations Manual)]
* link:{neo4j-docs-base-uri}/operations-manual/current/configuration/show-settings/[`SHOW SETTINGS` (Operations Manual)] // Not live yet
* link:{neo4j-docs-base-uri}/operations-manual/current/database-internals/show-and-terminate-transactions/#show-transactions[`SHOW TRANSACTIONS` (Operations Manual)] // Not live yet
* link:{neo4j-docs-base-uri}/operations-manual/current/authentication-authorization/manage-users/#access-control-list-users[`SHOW USERS` (Operations Manual)]

[[common-behavior-and-rules]]
== Common behavior and rules

> This section lists the behavior and rules common to all `SHOW` commands.

Reviewer: I think we decided some time ago not to start pages or sections with This page outlines, this section shows, etc.
Maybe you can say something like

```suggestion
All `SHOW` commands have similar behavior and comply to the same rules.
```

[[using-show-with-yield]]
=== Returning default and non-default columns using `SHOW` and `YIELD`

> All `SHOW` commands have default return columns, and most have non-default return columns as well (for information about the specific columns, visit the documentation for the specific `SHOW` command listed above).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All `SHOW` commands have default return columns, and most have non-default return columns as well.
For information about the specific columns, see the documentation for the specific `SHOW` command listed in <<show-commands-documentation, Table 1. Show commands documentation links>>. 
```

> To return non-default columns, `YIELD` must be used either to return only specific columns or all available columns.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using `YIELD` returns non-default columns, either specific columns or all available columns.
```

If the `RETURN` clause is used in any `SHOW` command, `YIELD` is mandatory.

.`RETURN` after `YIELD`
[source, cypher]
----
SHOW INDEXES
YIELD name, type, indexProvider AS provider, options, createStatement
RETURN name, type, provider, options.indexConfig AS config, createStatement
----

[[filter-show-using-where]]
=== Filter `SHOW` commands using `WHERE`

All `SHOW` commands can be filtered using the xref:clauses/where.adoc[`WHERE`] clause.
This allows you to narrow down results based on specific conditions, such as names or status values.

.Filter `SHOW` command using `WHERE`
[source, cypher]
----
SHOW SETTINGS YIELD name, value, description
WHERE name STARTS WITH 'server'
RETURN name, value, description
----

[role=label--new-2026.05 label--cypher-25-only]
[[composable-show-commands]]
== Composable `SHOW` commands

The following `SHOW` commands can be combined with general Cypher clauses in a single query:

* `SHOW CONSTRAINTS`
* `SHOW CURRENT GRAPH TYPE`
* `SHOW DATABASES`
* `SHOW FUNCTIONS`
* `SHOW INDEXES`
* `SHOW PROCEDURES`
* `SHOW SETTINGS`
* `SHOW TRANSACTIONS` (It has been possible to combine `SHOW TRANSACTIONS` with `TERMINATE TRANSACTIONS` since Neo4j 5.0.)

> [NOTE]
> ====
> When combining a `SHOW` command with other clauses, the `YIELD` clause is mandatory and must not be omitted.
> In addition, `YIELD *` is not permitted.
> Instead, the `YIELD` clause needs to explicitly list the yielded columns.
> The query must also end with a valid last clause (like a `RETURN` or an updating clause).
> ====

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[NOTE]
====
When combining a `SHOW` command with other clauses, the `YIELD` clause is mandatory and must not be omitted.
`YIELD` must explicitly list the yielded columns.
`YIELD *` is not permitted.
The query must also end with a valid last clause (like a `RETURN` or an updating clause).
====
```

[source, cypher]
----
SHOW INDEXES
----

.Show indexes -- return specific columns with `YIELD`
[source, cypher]
----
SHOW INDEXES
YIELD name, type, indexProvider
----

.Show indexes -- return all available columns using `YIELD *`
[source, cypher]
----
SHOW INDEXES
YIELD *
----

[[using-show-with-return]]
=== Using `SHOW` commands with `RETURN`

If the `RETURN` clause is used in any `SHOW` command, `YIELD` is mandatory.

.`RETURN` after `YIELD`
[source, cypher]
----
SHOW INDEXES
YIELD name, type, indexProvider AS provider, options, createStatement
RETURN name, type, provider, options.indexConfig AS config, createStatement
----

[[filter-show-using-where]]
=== Filter `SHOW` commands using `WHERE`

All `SHOW` commands can be filtered using the xref:clauses/where.adoc[`WHERE`] clause.
This allows you to narrow down results based on specific conditions, such as names or status values.

.Filter `SHOW` command using `WHERE`
[source, cypher]
----
SHOW SETTINGS YIELD name, value, description
WHERE name STARTS WITH 'server'
RETURN name, value, description
----

[role=label--new-2026.05 label--cypher-25-only]
[[composable-show-commands]]
== Composable `SHOW` commands

> The following `SHOW` commands can be combined with general Cypher clauses in a single query:

Reviewer 2: Do we want to be explicit about them being able to be combined together as well as with regular Cypher?
```suggestion
The following `SHOW` commands can be combined with each other and general Cypher clauses in a single query:
```

[NOTE]
====

> When combining a `SHOW` command with other clauses,  the `YIELD` clause is mandatory and must not be omitted.

Reviewer 2: I don't see any reason to have two spaces here :P
```suggestion
When combining a `SHOW` command with other clauses, the `YIELD` clause is mandatory and must not be omitted.
```
